Dear Luis Teixeira Neto:

We regret to inform you that your paper 133 entitled
A Semi-Automatic Approach for Generating Customized R2RML Mappings
has not been accepted for presentation at the ER 2013 Conference to be held in
Hong Kong, November 11-13, 2013. Given an acceptance rate of regular papers is 18.25%, so inclusion in the conference is very competitive.


Although we know this is not the outcome you were hoping for, we trust that you will find the enclosed reviews useful as you continue your research endeavors.

Thank you for your submission, and we hope to see you in Hong Kong to participate in the discussions.

Best regards,

Wilfred Ng, Juan Trujillo, Veda Storey

(PC co-chairs, ER 2013)


----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------
PAPER: 133
TITLE: A Semi-Automatic Approach for Generating Customized R2RML Mappings
AUTHORS: Vânia Vidal, Marco Antonio Casanova, Luis Teixeira Neto and José Monteiro

OVERALL EVALUATION: -1 (weak reject)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 3 (medium)
Technical Quality (including proper citations, e.g., to important historical literature): 2 (weak reject)
Originality: 4 (weak accept)
Relevance to ER: 3 (acceptable: conceptual modeling is an important part of the paper)
Quality of the Writing/Organization: 2 (deficient)
Appropriate References: 3 (acceptable)
Candidate for Best Paper/Best Student Paper Award: 1 (not really)
Appropriate for acceptance as a short paper, e.g., because it is somewhat preliminary: 1 (not really)
Appropriate for invitation to extend this paper for a special issue of a journal: 1 (not really)

----------- SUMMARIZE THE MAIN CONTRIBUTIONS -----------
The paper proposes an approach for generating R2RML mappings 
from RDBs to RDF ontologies, based on a "simpler" language for 
correspondence assertions (CAs). 
The language is introduced and an algorithm 
for translating CAs to R2RML is also presented. 
The procedure is explained using a realistic example, 
but an evaluation is missing.

----------- LIST THREE STRENGTHS OF THE PAPER -----------
S1: Relevant problem, although already frequently addressed 
(in general, but not for R2RML)
S2: The presented formalisms and algorithms seem 
to be technically correct
S3: The procedure has been implemented in a tool 
that has been demonstrated at ESWC 2013.

----------- LIST THREE WEAKNESSES OF THE PAPER -----------
W1: The ratio between motivation/explanation and technical details 
is unbalanced. It is not clear why we need yet 
another mapping language and an algorithm to translate 
this new mapping language into an existing language. 
A good motivating example is missing.

W2: There is no evaluation, although an implementation of the procedure 
has been already presented at ESWC 2013.
W3: The presentation of the examples is too short to improve the 
readability of the paper. "Here is the input, and there is the output" 
is not an explanation of the approach and it is not helpful to 
understand the example.

----------- PROVIDE OTHER COMMENTS TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF THE PAPER -----------
The paper might have a valuable contribution, 
but the presentation does not really highlight the challenges 
and key contributions of the paper. The paper does not read like 
a research paper that addresses a specific research question/problem, 
it is more like an implementation paper: there is a problem 
(which is very briefly described) and this is how we solved it. 
The motivation and reasons behind the approach are not explained at all. 
This is the main drawback of the paper, but especially in the area 
of RDB-to-RDF mappings, there have been SOOOO MANY approaches that 
a good argumentation for another one is really necessary.

I understand that providing additional information 
about motivation and design decisions might be difficult given the 
page limit, but I would suggest to leave out some 
technical details (e.g., do not show all CAs in Table 3 and 7, 
choose a more compact representation for algorithm 1)

----------- COMMENT ON THE SUITABILITY/UNSUITABILITY OF A SHORT VERSION OF THIS PAPER -----------
Seeing the level of technical detail, it will be hard to make 
a reasonable short paper.


----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------
PAPER: 133
TITLE: A Semi-Automatic Approach for Generating Customized R2RML Mappings
AUTHORS: Vânia Vidal, Marco Antonio Casanova, Luis Teixeira Neto and José Monteiro

OVERALL EVALUATION: -1 (weak reject)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 5 (expert)
Technical Quality (including proper citations, e.g., to important historical literature): 2 (weak reject)
Originality: 2 (weak reject)
Relevance to ER: 2 (deficient)
Quality of the Writing/Organization: 2 (deficient)
Appropriate References: 2 (deficient: (see section below on references))
Candidate for Best Paper/Best Student Paper Award: 1 (not really)
Appropriate for acceptance as a short paper, e.g., because it is somewhat preliminary: 1 (not really)
Appropriate for invitation to extend this paper for a special issue of a journal: 1 (not really)

----------- SUMMARIZE THE MAIN CONTRIBUTIONS -----------
The paper describes the use of "correspondence assertion" constructs 
to define mappings between a relational database and a target ontology, 
which can be automatically translated into the W3C R2RML mapping expressions. 
The R2RML mappings are used to define customized translation of data 
in a relational database to RDF graphs with embedded SQL queries.

----------- LIST THREE STRENGTHS OF THE PAPER -----------
1. The paper correctly describes the need to make it easier 
for domain experts to define R2RML mappings (but CAs are not the solution).
2. The paper also correctly identifies the need to transform data stored 
in relational databases to RDF for the LOD initiative to succeed.
3. The tool cited in the paper to automatically generate R2RML 
expression seems to be promising (but the input should not be 
CA constructs as described in the paper).

----------- LIST THREE WEAKNESSES OF THE PAPER -----------
1. The paper has several technical errors, 
including fundamental misunderstanding of 
what constitutes an ontology, a vocabulary, 
and their relation to RDF (additional points described in detailed review).
2. The CA described in the paper are clearly duplicating the expressions 
and constructs of the W3C R2RML, hence there is clearly no apparent need 
for another intermediary layer between a relational database and 
RDF graph in addition to R2RML.
3. The paper has several notation errors, including re-use of variable 
identifiers to denote two different things, for example A is 
listed as attributes of a table R (Section 2.2) as well as CAs 
in Section 2.3.

----------- PROVIDE OTHER COMMENTS TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF THE PAPER -----------
The paper states that it defines an easier way (Correspondence Assertions, CA) 
to define mappings between a relational database (RDB) schema and 
an ontology (to generate RDF), which can be automatically transformed into 
the W3C R2RML expressions. But, the two fundamental issues are:
1. CAs are not easier to define as compared to R2RML 
(there is no comparative user survey or evaluation provided 
by the paper to prove otherwise) and almost all the CA constructs 
(in Table 3 and Table 7) duplicate the R2RML constructs.
2. The CAs have significantly lower expressivity as compared to R2RML, 
for example R2RML provide expressions for inverse properties 
and also provide a way to handle blank nodes in RDF.

Hence, the need to redo the work of the RDB2RDF WG with a less expressive 
and partially redundant mapping construct is not made clear in the paper. 
For example:
1. Do CAs allow definition of constructs that cannot be expressed in R2RML?
2. Can CAs be automatically generated from the RDB schema and business rules, 
which may have been expressed in a rule formalism (e.g SWRL)?

There are several errors in the paper:
1. Section 1. RDFS or OWL have classes and properties and not RDF

2. Section 2.2. Why is an ontology class mapped to a selection over 
the primary key attributes of an RDB table? 
This will lead to incorrect mapping of tuples to the class properties in 
subsequent RDF dataset.

3. Section 2.3. What are scalar and tuple variables and how can 
they be members of an ontology? 
An ontology (especially OWL) does not have variables.

4. Section 2.3 If P(x,y) corresponds to a property P and x and y 
to its domain and range then B[X,y] cannot be mapped to P(x,y) 
since B[x,y] is previously mapped to Class C(x).

5. Section 2.3 What is "value of property P" in context of RDF?

6. The CONF_OWL is clearly an incorrect domain ontology with several 
ontology engineering errors - where did the class Person get "Conf:address" 
as a property (there is no corresponding value in the ISWC_REL schema)? 
The location of class Conference may have overlapping 
set of instances with class PostalAddress, but they are not connected 
in the schema?

7. There is no table 9 and reference 15 as cited in the paper.

----------- DESCRIBE OTHER REFERENCES THAT SHOULD BE PROVIDED -----------
1. RDB2OWL: a practical approach for transforming RDB data into 
RDF/OWL by Bumans et al.
2. A comparison of RDB-to-RDF mapping languages by Hert et al.

----------- COMMENT ON THE SUITABILITY/UNSUITABILITY OF A SHORT VERSION OF THIS PAPER -----------
The paper would need to be significantly modified for acceptance 
as short paper and address the above listed issues.


----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------
PAPER: 133
TITLE: A Semi-Automatic Approach for Generating Customized R2RML Mappings
AUTHORS: Vânia Vidal, Marco Antonio Casanova, Luis Teixeira Neto and José Monteiro

OVERALL EVALUATION: 1 (weak accept)
REVIEWER'S CONFIDENCE: 4 (high)
Technical Quality (including proper citations, e.g., to important historical literature): 4 (weak accept)
Originality: 4 (weak accept)
Relevance to ER: 3 (acceptable: conceptual modeling is an important part of the paper)
Quality of the Writing/Organization: 3 (acceptable)
Appropriate References: 3 (acceptable)
Candidate for Best Paper/Best Student Paper Award: 1 (not really)
Appropriate for acceptance as a short paper, e.g., because it is somewhat preliminary: 2 (perhaps)
Appropriate for invitation to extend this paper for a special issue of a journal: 1 (not really)

----------- SUMMARIZE THE MAIN CONTRIBUTIONS -----------
In the context of LinkedData, the authors propose a two-step approach 
to define mappings between datasets. Instead of directly writing the 
mappings in the standard R2RML language, they propose to first define 
a set of assertions between the elements to be mapped and use those 
assertions to automatically generate the R2RML mappings

----------- LIST THREE STRENGTHS OF THE PAPER -----------
As typically done in all schema-to-schema (or model-to-model) transformation 
scenarios, the authors propose to go up in the abstraction ladder 
to help designers define the mappings between the two schemas. 
The idea is to provide a more concise (assertion-based in this case) language
from which the actual mappings can be generated.

----------- LIST THREE WEAKNESSES OF THE PAPER -----------
In this sense the paper does not present a fundamental contribution but 
a practical one. Even if, in fact, the claim that their approach facilitates 
the definition of R2RML is not validated 
(there is no experiment with a group of designers measuring this) 
I think the example clearly conveys this message.

The main concern with the paper is the lack of any comment on 
the trade-offs of their approach. Going up in the abstraction level 
always comes with a price. Typically, the higher-level language 
(the assertion language in this case) is not able to express all 
possible correspondances we can find in the real world and/or the 
generation of the mappings from it is only partial. 
These aspects are completely ignored in the paper.

----------- PROVIDE OTHER COMMENTS TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF THE PAPER -----------
1